![Kickstart Coding Logo](./client/public/kickstart_coding_logo.png)

<<<<<<< HEAD
# MERN Prototyping Starter

This is an example start project for [Kickstart Coding](http://kickstartcoding.com/)
MERN MVP projects.
=======
## Customizable beatsheet 

Drag and drop virtual index cards for organizing your plot outlines. 


>>>>>>> 01fe26d6ab93c7ffed06083042a8397677bc6d03

It provides a solid foundation for building a MERN project that's ready to
launch to Heroku or similar web-hosting service.

**DO NOT** use this project as-is in production. It exposes an API to MongoDB
without any sort of security. The only purpose of the API is to allow rapid
front-end prototyping without much (or any) backend modifications. See the
"Securing the backend" section below for more info.

## About

### Features

* `react` and `react-router` are set-up in a normal, `create-react-app` layout
    * Does NOT use Redux, to keep things simpler

* Example blogging single page app App that does all four CRUD operation in a
  heavily commented way, for examples to do everything

* MongoDB, Express, and Node.js are set-up
    * Does NOT use Mongoose, to keep things simpler
    * Purposefully exposes the MongoDB API to the front-end for
      rapid-prototyping without the need of doing any back-end coding

* Handy `run.sh` script that brings in a `.env.local` file for configuration

* Ready-to-go to launch to Heroku


### Who is this for

* This is for **new JavaScript/Reeact programmers**, including **coding class
  students** who want a solid start for a React project and want to create
  application prototypes without having to touch any backend coding, while
  keeping the option open to transition to a secure MERN stack.

* The documentation assumes you already have fundamental JavaScript, React, Bash
  and Heroku knowledge. If you are new to Heroku, read our [Heroku Getting
  Started guide](http://github.com/kickstartcoding/heroku-getting-started/).

* The documentation *does not* explicitly support Windows. It assumes you use
  either **macOS** or a **GNU/Linux** distribution such as Ubuntu. That said,
  it might work.

> This was original created for Kickstart Coding, the affordable,
> inclusive, and intensive coding course teaching cutting-edge Python /
> Django and JavaScript / React web development in Oakland, CA.
> [Learn more and enroll here.](http://kickstartcoding.com/?utm_source=github&utm_campaign=cheatsheets)

## Usage

### Set-up

1. Get the code. You can either download this repo as a tar.gz or zip file,
then extract, do a git pull and copy over the files into your project, or fork
this project.

2. Set-up your MongoDB database.

    - Either set-up a [MongoDB Atlas](https://cloud.mongodb.com) database
      testing purposes with your team (easiest). A full guide for this is
      included here, in the included
      [`mongodb_atlas_guide.md`](./mongodb_atlas_guide.md)

    - Or install and configure a local DB for testing

3. Create a ".env.local" file, that contains your credentials. If you followed
the [`mongodb_atlas_guide.md`](./mongodb_atlas_guide.md) tutorial, you will
have already done this.

    - This file WILL NOT go into your git repo (because it is in .gitignore).
      If you will be using the supplied run.sh, it should be in the following
      format:

        <!-- export MONGODB_URI='mongodb://USERNAME:PASSWORD@something.com:1234/DB_NAME' -->

    - Where USERNAME and PASSWORD is replaced with an actual username and
      password on the MongoDB. In the case of MongoDB Atlas, you will have to
      create a username and password as a separate step (see the
      [`mongodb_atlas_guide.md`](./mongodb_atlas_guide.md))

4. NPM install (this will install for both backend and frontend, and may take a
while):

    npm install


### Running

You have two options for running local development, either manually starting
the server using two terminals, or using the included `run.sh` which does that
for you in a single terminal.

#### Two terminals

Open up two terminals, one for the backend, the other for the front-end. The
backend server will run using Node Monitor ("nodemon") which will auto-restart
when you make changes.

**Backend terminal:**

    source .env.local
    ./node_modules/.bin/nodemon server.js

**Frontend terminal:**

    cd client
    npm run start



#### One terminal: `run.sh`

For local development, use the included "run.sh" Bash script:

    bash run.sh

Look inside the script. Can you understand what it is doing?  It does the same
thing as the previous instructions, but saved into a script form, so you won't
have to open multiple terminals or tabs.


### Heroku

The `.env.local` file does not get copied over to Heroku.  If you want to use
your MongoDB Atlas database on Heroku, you will need to configure it with
Heroku. Use a command like below, except with the same string you did in the
previous steps (`.env.local`):

    heroku config:set MONGODB_URI='mongodb://someUser:...'


To ensure Heroku has the right configuration values set (which should occur
after you have done `heroku create` to make a new Heroku app), do a command
like the following:


    heroku config

You should see your `MONGODB_URI` specified, something like:

    MONGODB_URI  mongodb://someUser:somePassword@something.com:1234/someDatabaseName 

Launching to Heroku is like any other app:

    git push heroku master


# Understanding the code

Once you have it locally running, try the following:

1. Create an article

2. View the articles API using localhost:8080/api/mongodb/blogposts/


# Securing the backend

After the prototype is built, the backend can be incrementally secured by
creating custom routes that do the logic required for your application, and
delete each generic / insecure route. For example, instead of allowing deletion
of ANY documents, it could only allow queries in a certain format to only
delete from a certain collection, relevant to your application. Also, you may
consider using an authentication framework for Express.js, such as Passport.

Once you replace a given insecure route, and make the front-end use the new
route, you can delete the old route.

Once you have deleted ALL of the generic / in-secure routes, and only have
custom and securely written routes, then this prototyping set-up will be as
secure as any other typical MERN-backend.


